# 每日从arXiv中获取最新YOLO相关论文


## Coconut Palm Tree Counting on Drone Images with Deep Object Detection and Synthetic Training Data

**发布日期**：2024-12-16

**作者**：Tobias Rohe

**摘要**：Drones have revolutionized various domains, including agriculture. Recent
advances in deep learning have propelled among other things object detection in
computer vision. This study utilized YOLO, a real\-time object detector, to
identify and count coconut palm trees in Ghanaian farm drone footage. The farm
presented has lost track of its trees due to different planting phases. While
manual counting would be very tedious and error\-prone, accurately determining
the number of trees is crucial for efficient planning and management of
agricultural processes, especially for optimizing yields and predicting
production. We assessed YOLO for palm detection within a semi\-automated
framework, evaluated accuracy augmentations, and pondered its potential for
farmers. Data was captured in September 2022 via drones. To optimize YOLO with
scarce data, synthetic images were created for model training and validation.
The YOLOv7 model, pretrained on the COCO dataset \(excluding coconut palms\), was
adapted using tailored data. Trees from footage were repositioned on synthetic
images, with testing on distinct authentic images. In our experiments, we
adjusted hyperparameters, improving YOLO's mean average precision \(mAP\). We
also tested various altitudes to determine the best drone height. From an
initial mAP@.5 of $0.65$, we achieved 0.88, highlighting the value of synthetic
images in agricultural scenarios.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11949v1)

---


## CLDA\-YOLO: Visual Contrastive Learning Based Domain Adaptive YOLO Detector

**发布日期**：2024-12-16

**作者**：Tianheng Qiu

**摘要**：Unsupervised domain adaptive \(UDA\) algorithms can markedly enhance the
performance of object detectors under conditions of domain shifts, thereby
reducing the necessity for extensive labeling and retraining. Current domain
adaptive object detection algorithms primarily cater to two\-stage detectors,
which tend to offer minimal improvements when directly applied to single\-stage
detectors such as YOLO. Intending to benefit the YOLO detector from UDA, we
build a comprehensive domain adaptive architecture using a teacher\-student
cooperative system for the YOLO detector. In this process, we propose
uncertainty learning to cope with pseudo\-labeling generated by the teacher
model with extreme uncertainty and leverage dynamic data augmentation to
asymptotically adapt the teacher\-student system to the environment. To address
the inability of single\-stage object detectors to align at multiple stages, we
utilize a unified visual contrastive learning paradigm that aligns instance at
backbone and head respectively, which steadily improves the robustness of the
detectors in cross\-domain tasks. In summary, we present an unsupervised domain
adaptive YOLO detector based on visual contrastive learning \(CLDA\-YOLO\), which
achieves highly competitive results across multiple domain adaptive datasets
without any reduction in inference speed.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11812v1)

---


## PyPotteryLens: An Open\-Source Deep Learning Framework for Automated Digitisation of Archaeological Pottery Documentation

**发布日期**：2024-12-16

**作者**：Lorenzo Cardarelli

**摘要**：Archaeological pottery documentation and study represents a crucial but
time\-consuming aspect of archaeology. While recent years have seen advances in
digital documentation methods, vast amounts of legacy data remain locked in
traditional publications. This paper introduces PyPotteryLens, an open\-source
framework that leverages deep learning to automate the digitisation and
processing of archaeological pottery drawings from published sources. The
system combines state\-of\-the\-art computer vision models \(YOLO for instance
segmentation and EfficientNetV2 for classification\) with an intuitive user
interface, making advanced digital methods accessible to archaeologists
regardless of technical expertise. The framework achieves over 97\\% precision
and recall in pottery detection and classification tasks, while reducing
processing time by up to 5x to 20x compared to manual methods. Testing across
diverse archaeological contexts demonstrates robust generalisation
capabilities. Also, the system's modular architecture facilitates extension to
other archaeological materials, while its standardised output format ensures
long\-term preservation and reusability of digitised data as well as solid basis
for training machine learning algorithms. The software, documentation, and
examples are available on GitHub
\(https://github.com/lrncrd/PyPottery/tree/PyPotteryLens\).


**代码链接**：https://github.com/lrncrd/PyPottery/tree/PyPotteryLens).

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11574v1)

---


## Enhancing Road Crack Detection Accuracy with BsS\-YOLO: Optimizing Feature Fusion and Attention Mechanisms

**发布日期**：2024-12-14

**作者**：Jiaze Tang

**摘要**：Effective road crack detection is crucial for road safety, infrastructure
preservation, and extending road lifespan, offering significant economic
benefits. However, existing methods struggle with varied target scales, complex
backgrounds, and low adaptability to different environments. This paper
presents the BsS\-YOLO model, which optimizes multi\-scale feature fusion through
an enhanced Path Aggregation Network \(PAN\) and Bidirectional Feature Pyramid
Network \(BiFPN\). The incorporation of weighted feature fusion improves feature
representation, boosting detection accuracy and robustness. Furthermore, a
Simple and Effective Attention Mechanism \(SimAM\) within the backbone enhances
precision via spatial and channel\-wise attention. The detection layer
integrates a Shuffle Attention mechanism, which rearranges and mixes features
across channels, refining key representations and further improving accuracy.
Experimental results show that BsS\-YOLO achieves a 2.8% increase in mean
average precision \(mAP\) for road crack detection, supporting its applicability
in diverse scenarios, including urban road maintenance and highway inspections.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.10902v1)

---


## SPACE\-SUIT: An Artificial Intelligence based chromospheric feature extractor and classifier for SUIT

**发布日期**：2024-12-11

**作者**：Pranava Seth

**摘要**：The Solar Ultraviolet Imaging Telescope\(SUIT\) onboard Aditya\-L1 is an imager
that observes the solar photosphere and chromosphere through observations in
the wavelength range of 200\-400 nm. A comprehensive understanding of the plasma
and thermodynamic properties of chromospheric and photospheric morphological
structures requires a large sample statistical study, necessitating the
development of automatic feature detection methods. To this end, we develop the
feature detection algorithm SPACE\-SUIT: Solar Phenomena Analysis and
Classification using Enhanced vision techniques for SUIT, to detect and
classify the solar chromospheric features to be observed from SUIT's Mg II k
filter. Specifically, we target plage regions, sunspots, filaments, and
off\-limb structures. SPACE uses You Only Look Once\(YOLO\), a neural
network\-based model to identify regions of interest. We train and validate
SPACE using mock\-SUIT images developed from Interface Region Imaging
Spectrometer\(IRIS\) full\-disk mosaic images in Mg II k line, while we also
perform detection on Level\-1 SUIT data. SPACE achieves an approximate precision
of 0.788, recall 0.863 and MAP of 0.874 on the validation mock SUIT FITS
dataset. Given the manual labeling of our dataset, we perform "self\-validation"
by applying statistical measures and Tamura features on the ground truth and
predicted bounding boxes. We find the distributions of entropy, contrast,
dissimilarity, and energy to show differences in the features. These
differences are qualitatively captured by the detected regions predicted by
SPACE and validated with the observed SUIT images, even in the absence of
labeled ground truth. This work not only develops a chromospheric feature
extractor but also demonstrates the effectiveness of statistical metrics and
Tamura features for distinguishing chromospheric features, offering independent
validation for future detection schemes.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08589v1)

---


## DynamicPAE: Generating Scene\-Aware Physical Adversarial Examples in Real\-Time

**发布日期**：2024-12-11

**作者**：Jin Hu

**摘要**：Physical adversarial examples \(PAEs\) are regarded as "whistle\-blowers" of
real\-world risks in deep\-learning applications. However, current PAE generation
studies show limited adaptive attacking ability to diverse and varying scenes.
The key challenges in generating dynamic PAEs are exploring their patterns
under noisy gradient feedback and adapting the attack to agnostic scenario
natures. To address the problems, we present DynamicPAE, the first generative
framework that enables scene\-aware real\-time physical attacks beyond static
attacks. Specifically, to train the dynamic PAE generator under noisy gradient
feedback, we introduce the residual\-driven sample trajectory guidance
technique, which redefines the training task to break the limited feedback
information restriction that leads to the degeneracy problem. Intuitively, it
allows the gradient feedback to be passed to the generator through a low\-noise
auxiliary task, thereby guiding the optimization away from degenerate solutions
and facilitating a more comprehensive and stable exploration of feasible PAEs.
To adapt the generator to agnostic scenario natures, we introduce the
context\-aligned scene expectation simulation process, consisting of the
conditional\-uncertainty\-aligned data module and the skewness\-aligned objective
re\-weighting module. The former enhances robustness in the context of
incomplete observation by employing a conditional probabilistic model for
domain randomization, while the latter facilitates consistent stealth control
across different attack targets by automatically reweighting losses based on
the skewness indicator. Extensive digital and physical evaluations demonstrate
the superior attack performance of DynamicPAE, attaining a 1.95 $\\times$ boost
\(65.55% average AP drop under attack\) on representative object detectors \(e.g.,
Yolo\-v8\) over state\-of\-the\-art static PAE generating methods.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08053v1)

---


## 3A\-YOLO: New Real\-Time Object Detectors with Triple Discriminative Awareness and Coordinated Representations

**发布日期**：2024-12-10

**作者**：Xuecheng Wu

**摘要**：Recent research on real\-time object detectors \(e.g., YOLO series\) has
demonstrated the effectiveness of attention mechanisms for elevating model
performance. Nevertheless, existing methods neglect to unifiedly deploy
hierarchical attention mechanisms to construct a more discriminative YOLO head
which is enriched with more useful intermediate features. To tackle this gap,
this work aims to leverage multiple attention mechanisms to hierarchically
enhance the triple discriminative awareness of the YOLO detection head and
complementarily learn the coordinated intermediate representations, resulting
in a new series detectors denoted 3A\-YOLO. Specifically, we first propose a new
head denoted TDA\-YOLO Module, which unifiedly enhance the representations
learning of scale\-awareness, spatial\-awareness, and task\-awareness. Secondly,
we steer the intermediate features to coordinately learn the inter\-channel
relationships and precise positional information. Finally, we perform neck
network improvements followed by introducing various tricks to boost the
adaptability of 3A\-YOLO. Extensive experiments across COCO and VOC benchmarks
indicate the effectiveness of our detectors.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07168v1)

---


## DEYOLO: Dual\-Feature\-Enhancement YOLO for Cross\-Modality Object Detection

**发布日期**：2024-12-06

**作者**：Yishuo Chen

**摘要**：Object detection in poor\-illumination environments is a challenging task as
objects are usually not clearly visible in RGB images. As infrared images
provide additional clear edge information that complements RGB images, fusing
RGB and infrared images has potential to enhance the detection ability in
poor\-illumination environments. However, existing works involving both visible
and infrared images only focus on image fusion, instead of object detection.
Moreover, they directly fuse the two kinds of image modalities, which ignores
the mutual interference between them. To fuse the two modalities to maximize
the advantages of cross\-modality, we design a dual\-enhancement\-based
cross\-modality object detection network DEYOLO, in which semantic\-spatial cross
modality and novel bi\-directional decoupled focus modules are designed to
achieve the detection\-centered mutual enhancement of RGB\-infrared \(RGB\-IR\).
Specifically, a dual semantic enhancing channel weight assignment module \(DECA\)
and a dual spatial enhancing pixel weight assignment module \(DEPA\) are firstly
proposed to aggregate cross\-modality information in the feature space to
improve the feature representation ability, such that feature fusion can aim at
the object detection task. Meanwhile, a dual\-enhancement mechanism, including
enhancements for two\-modality fusion and single modality, is designed in both
DECAand DEPAto reduce interference between the two kinds of image modalities.
Then, a novel bi\-directional decoupled focus is developed to enlarge the
receptive field of the backbone network in different directions, which improves
the representation quality of DEYOLO. Extensive experiments on M3FD and LLVIP
show that our approach outperforms SOTA object detection algorithms by a clear
margin. Our code is available at https://github.com/chips96/DEYOLO.


**代码链接**：https://github.com/chips96/DEYOLO.

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04931v1)

---


## YOLO\-CCA: A Context\-Based Approach for Traffic Sign Detection

**发布日期**：2024-12-05

**作者**：Linfeng Jiang

**摘要**：Traffic sign detection is crucial for improving road safety and advancing
autonomous driving technologies. Due to the complexity of driving environments,
traffic sign detection frequently encounters a range of challenges, including
low resolution, limited feature information, and small object sizes. These
challenges significantly hinder the effective extraction of features from
traffic signs, resulting in false positives and false negatives in object
detection. To address these challenges, it is essential to explore more
efficient and accurate approaches for traffic sign detection. This paper
proposes a context\-based algorithm for traffic sign detection, which utilizes
YOLOv7 as the baseline model. Firstly, we propose an adaptive local context
feature enhancement \(LCFE\) module using multi\-scale dilation convolution to
capture potential relationships between the object and surrounding areas. This
module supplements the network with additional local context information.
Secondly, we propose a global context feature collection \(GCFC\) module to
extract key location features from the entire image scene as global context
information. Finally, we build a Transformer\-based context collection
augmentation \(CCA\) module to process the collected local context and global
context, which achieves superior multi\-level feature fusion results for YOLOv7
without bringing in additional complexity. Extensive experimental studies
performed on the Tsinghua\-Tencent 100K dataset show that the mAP of our method
is 92.1\\%. Compared with YOLOv7, our approach improves 3.9\\% in mAP, while the
amount of parameters is reduced by 2.7M. On the CCTSDB2021 dataset the mAP is
improved by 0.9\\%. These results show that our approach achieves higher
detection accuracy with fewer parameters. The source code is available at
\\url\{https://github.com/zippiest/yolo\-cca\}.


**代码链接**：https://github.com/zippiest/yolo-cca}.

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04289v1)

---


## Machine learning enhanced multi\-particle tracking in solid fuel combustion

**发布日期**：2024-12-05

**作者**：Haowen Chen

**摘要**：Particle velocimetry is essential in solid fuel combustion studies, however,
the accurate detection and tracking of particles in high Particle Number
Density \(PND\) combustion scenario remain challenging. The current study
advances the machine\-learning approaches for precise velocity measurements of
solid particles. For this, laser imaging experiments were performed for
high\-volatile bituminous coal particles burning in a laminar flow reactor.
Particle positions were imaged using time\-resolved Mie scattering. Various
detection methods, including conventional blob detection and Machine Learning
\(ML\) based You Only Look Once \(YOLO\) and Realtime Detection Transformer
\(RT\-DETR\) were employed and bench marked.~Particle tracking was performed using
the Simple Online Realtime Tracking \(SORT\) algorithm. The results demonstrated
the capability of machine learning models trained on low\-PND data for
prediction of high\-PND data. Slicing Aided Hyper Inference \(SAHI\) algorithm is
important for the better performance of the used models. By evaluating the
velocity statistics, it is found that the mean particle velocity decreases with
increasing PND, primarily due to stronger particle interactions. The particle
dynamics are closely related to the position of combustion zone observed in the
previous study. Thus, PND is considered as the dominant factor for the particle
group combustion behavior of high\-volatile solid fuels.


**代码链接**：摘要中未找到代码链接。

**论文链接**：[阅读更多](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04091v1)

---

